TALKBACK FEATURE NOTICE

The TalkBack feature, included with the Licensed Program(s), enables
ALTERA to receive limited information concerning your compilation of
logic designs (but not the logic design files themselves) using the
Licensed Program(s).  One of the primary purposes of the TalkBack
feature is to assist ALTERA in understanding how its customers use the
Licensed Program(s) and ALTERA'S other products, so more effort can be
placed on improving the features most important to users.  To
disable/enable the TalkBack feature, run qtb_install.exe located in
your quartus/bin folder.

INFORMATION COLLECTED

The only information that ALTERA will receive through the TalkBack
feature is the information listed below.  NO DESIGN FILES WILL BE
COLLECTED OR TRANSMITTED.

Logic design compilation information regarding the following
categories will be collected: constraints (e.g., location assignments,
clock and timing requirement and assignments, any constraints set via
the Quartus II graphical user interface), device (e.g., targeted
device and family), compilation (e.g., device, memory and I/O
utilization, time of compilation), design (e.g., the number of each
type of file used and name of top file, intellectual property
cores/Megacore® logic functions used), software tools (e.g.,
synthesis, simulation and timing analysis tools used and version and
build of the Licensed Program(s)), platform (e.g., operating system,
speed and number of processors and main memory), license file
identification number (T-Guard, host ID, NIC ID or C: drive),
graphical user interface activity, and software errors log (e.g.,
previous exit status).

ALTERA may correlate the data collected by the TalkBack feature to
determine the identity of the user.

TRANSMISSION OF INFORMATION

The TalkBack feature functions by bundling the collected information
resulting from each logic design compilation and writing it to XML
files which are transmitted to ALTERA'S external web server by https
(hypertext transfer protocol secure) post.

The TalkBack feature will only maintain up to fifteen (15) files at
any given time, i.e., the last five (5) sent files and up to ten (10)
unsent files.  As new files are created, prior files (whether or not
previously transmitted) will be deleted.  Saved files will be less
than 2 MB in size and can be viewed as text files found in your
temporary directory on your hard drive (typically in \tmp, c:\temp, or
"c:\documents and settings\username\local settings\temp").

If an https post transmission fails, or an internet connection is not
available at the time of compilation, the information is stored as an
XML file.  Once an internet connection is achieved by you, the https
post transmission will again be attempted upon a successful
compilation.  The TalkBack feature will not initiate an internet
connection.  Files that have not been successfully transmitted will be
named "quartus_talkback*.xml", while successfully transmitted files
will be renamed as "sent_quartus_talkback*.xml."

The collection and bundling of information by the TalkBack feature
will not materially affect the compilation time or the performance of
the Licensed Program(s).

ALTERA uses reasonable efforts to maintain the privacy of the
transmitted information.  However, due to technological limitations,
and the risk of unlawful interceptions and accessing of transmissions
and/or data, ALTERA cannot completely assure you, and you should not
expect, that the information will be absolutely protected or
confidential.  Once received, the transmitted information is protected
from outside ALTERA by "firewalls."

Should you attempt to tamper with or modify any installation of the
Licensed Program(s) in any way (other than as permitted herein or by
your license), ALTERA does not take any responsibility regarding the
operation of the TalkBack feature, or the collection and transmission
of data as described herein.

NON-DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION COLLECTED; USE OF INFORMATION

The logic design compilation information collected by the TalkBack
feature will not be disclosed by ALTERA to any third parties other
than its subsidiaries, its distributors and sales representatives and
to the company on behalf of whom you are using the Quartus II software
(collectively, Partners) which disclosure will be in a form which
correlates and personally identifies individual customers or users;
provided, however, that ALTERA may share this information in an
aggregate form that does not identify individual customers or users,
with third parties, including, without limitation, its electronic
design automation (EDA) partners.  ALTERA also seeks to require its
Partners to exercise reasonable efforts to maintain the
confidentiality of the information.

The personally identifiable information collected by the TalkBack
feature will only be used by ALTERA and its Partners (excepting your
company) for marketing and sales (for example, selective announcement
of new products and services, distribution of marketing information,
etc.) product planning and software development purposes (for example,
solving software problems, optimizing software processing and
designing future products to your needs).  If you do not wish to
receive sales and marketing communications, you may contact
webmaster@altera.com.  In that case, we will use reasonable efforts to
promptly remove you from such lists.

EUROPEAN USERS OF THE LICENSED PROGRAM(S): Please note that the
TalkBack feature will collect and provide certain personally
identifiable information to ALTERA.  By agreeing to this Program
Subscription License Agreement, you hereby give your consent for
ALTERA to use this information both within and outside of the European
Union for the purposes described in this TalkBack disclosure notice.

ACCESS TO INFORMATION BY ISPS

Through the https post procedure, your and ALTERA'S Internet Service
Providers will also receive the information collected by the TalkBack
feature.  However, ALTERA'S ISP does not disclose, share, release,
publish, disseminate, rent or sell any of the information to any third
parties. You should contact your ISP to determine their disclosure
policies.

REQUIRED DISCLOSURES

In addition to the permitted disclosures described herein, and
regardless of anything herein to the contrary, ALTERA may disclose
personally identifiable information (collected by the TalkBack feature
and correlated to users), with or without prior notice, when ALTERA
believes that the law requires it, in response to subpoenas or at the
demand of governmental agencies, to protect its systems or business,
or to respond to an emergency.

ASSIGNMENT

ALTERA reserves the right to transfer any and all information
collected by the TalkBack feature from users of the Licensed
Program(s) to a third party in the event that it sells or transfers
substantially all of its assets related to the Licensed Program(s) to
such third party.

DISABLING/ENABLING

You may disable/enable the TalkBack feature at any time by running
qtb_install.exe located in your quartus\bin folder.
