QUARTUS  II SOFTWARE - TALKBACK FEATURE

INTRODUCTION

The TalkBack feature of Altera Corporation's Quartus II software
enables Altera to receive limited information concerning the Quartus
II software you use and your compilation of logic designs (but not the
logic design files themselves) using the Quartus II software.  One of
the primary purposes of the TalkBack feature is to assist Altera in
understanding how its customers use the Quartus II software and
devices, so more effort can be placed on improving the features most
important to users.  THE TALKBACK FEATURE WILL NOT BE ENABLED
UNLESS YOU DESIRE TO DO SO.  Once enabled, the TalkBack feature 
will remain operational until such time as you decide to disable it.
To disable/enable the TalkBack feature, run qtb_install.exe located 
in your quartus/bin folder.

INFORMATION COLLECTED

The only information that Altera will receive through the TalkBack
feature is the information listed below.  NO DESIGN FILES WILL BE
COLLECTED OR TRANSMITTED.

Logic design compilation information regarding the following
categories will be collected: constraints (e.g., location assignments,
clock and timing requirement and assignments, any constraints set via
Altera software), device (e.g., targeted device and family),
compilation (e.g., device, memory and I/O utilization), design (e.g.,
the number of each type of file used and name of top file,
intellectual property cores/MegacoreÅÆ logic functions used), software
tools (e.g., synthesis, simulation and timing analysis tools used and
Quartus II version and build), platform (e.g., operating system, speed
and number of processors and main memory), license file identification
number (T-Guard, host ID, NIC ID or C: drive), graphical user interface
activities, software errors log (e.g., previous exit status).

Altera may correlate the data collected by the TalkBack feature by
which it is possible to determine the identity of the user.

TRANSMISSION OF INFORMATION

The TalkBack feature functions by bundling the collected information
resulting from your installation and/or execution of the Quartus II
software and each logic design compilation and writing it to XML files
which are transmitted to Altera's external web server by https
(hypertext transfer protocol secure) post.

The TalkBack feature will only maintain up to fifteen (15) files at
any given time, i.e., the last five (5) sent files and up to ten (10)
unsent files.  As new files are created, prior files (whether or not
previously transmitted) will be deleted.  Each saved file will be less
than 2 MB in size and can be viewed as text files found in your
temporary directory on your hard drive (typically in /tmp, c:/temp, or
c:\documents and settings\username\local settings\temp).

If an https post transmission fails, or an internet connection is not
available at the time of installation, execution or compilation, the
information is stored as an XML file.  Once an internet connection is
achieved by you, the https post transmission will again be attempted
upon a successful compilation.  The TalkBack feature will not initiate
an internet connection.  Files that have not been successfully
transmitted will be named "quartus_talkback*.xml", while successfully
transmitted files will be renamed as "sent_quartus_talkback*.xml."

The collection and bundling of information by the TalkBack feature
will not affect the installation, compilation time or the performance
of the Quartus II tools.

Altera uses reasonable efforts to maintain the privacy of the
transmitted information.  However, due to technological limitations,
and the risk of unlawful interceptions and accessing of transmissions
and/or data, Altera cannot completely assure you, and you should not
expect, that the information will be absolutely protected or
confidential.  Once received, the transmitted information is protected
from outside Altera by "firewalls."

Should you attempt to tamper with or modify any installation of the
Quartus software in any way (other than as permitted herein or by your
license), Altera does not take any responsibility regarding the
operation of the TalkBack feature, or the collection and transmission
of data as described herein.

NON-DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION COLLECTED; USE OF INFORMATION

The information collected by the TalkBack feature will not be
disclosed by Altera to any third parties other than its subsidiaries
and to the company on behalf of whom you are using the Quartus II
software; provided, however, that Altera may share this information,
but only in an aggregate form that does not identify individual
customers or users, with third parties, including, without limitation,
its electronic design automation (EDA) partners.  Altera also seeks to
require its subsidiaries to maintain the confidentiality of the
information.

The information collected by the TalkBack feature will only be used by
Altera and its subsidiaries for marketing and sales (for example,
selective announcement of new products and services, distribution of
marketing information, etc.), product planning and software
development purposes (for example, solving software problems,
optimizing software processing and designing future products to your
needs).  If you do not wish to receive sales and marketing
communications, you may contact webmaster@altera.com.  In that case,
we will use reasonable efforts to promptly remove you from such lists.

ACCESS TO INFORMATION BY ISPS

Through the https post procedure, your and Altera's Internet Service
Providers also receive the information collected by the TalkBack
feature.  However, Altera's ISP does not disclose, share, release,
publish, disseminate, rent or sell any of the information to any third
parties. You should contact your ISP to determine their disclosure
policies.

REQUIRED DISCLOSURES

In addition to the permitted disclosures described herein, and
regardless of anything herein to the contrary, Altera may disclose
personally identifiable information (collected by the TalkBack feature
and correlated to users), with or without prior notice, when Altera
believes that the law requires it, in response to subpoenas or at the
demand of governmental agencies, to protect its systems or business,
or to respond to an emergency.

ASSIGNMENT

Altera reserves the right to transfer any and all information
collected by the TalkBack feature from Quartus II software users to a
third party in the event that it sells or transfers substantially all
of its assets related to Quartus II software to such third party.

CONCLUSION

If you wish to print out this disclosure notice, you should highlight
this text, right-click, select "copy" then "paste" into a document in
your word processing program.

EUROPEAN USERS OF THE LICENSED PROGRAM(S): Please note that the
TalkBack feature will collect and provide certain personally
identifiable information to ALTERA.  By agreeing to this TalkBack
Feature Notice and running the TalkBack installer, you hereby give
your consent for ALTERA and its subsidiaries to use this information
both within and outside of the European Union for the purposes
described in this TalkBack Feature Notice.

If you desire to enable the TalkBack feature, and understand and agree
to these terms, please run qtb_install.exe located in your quartus/bin
folder.  You may disable the TalkBack feature at any time by
re-running qtb_install.exe located in your quartus/bin folder.

Please feel free to contact webmaster@altera.com with any questions,
comments, concerns or feedback regarding the TalkBack feature of
Quartus II software.

"TalkBack" Feature Notice Copyright 2001-2006 Altera Corporation.  All
rights reserved. Quartus and Megacore are trademarks of Altera
Corporation in the US and other countries.
